The Joe Rogan experience, I'm going to train hop. I'm going to hitchhike. Um,
vice gave me like one of the first vice shows was thumbs up. I, uh,
Gavin McInnes, uh, Shane Smith, those guys I used to, uh,
I've been writing and drawing. So I found.
Out about you really? Yeah. I found out about you from, well, from two places,
one from Bordain, but two from a video that I watch of you going to the Congo,
looking for a dinosaur, that was the first thing I ever saw of you.
I think that's like, then I talked to Bordain about you and he was like,
you got to talk to this guy, you got to meet him. And when I saw your show,
I was like, look at this dude, this is crazy.
He's looking for a Brontosaurus in the middle of the Congo.
In 1994, I was living in Israel,
in a farm called Vermont Hako Vish. And it was a kibbutz.
And to live on the kibbutz, you have to work.
And I was the illegal immigrant there. So I'm trying, I have no money.
So I'm making enough working on the farm just to live on the farm.
And at this point I'm 18 years old. I've been hitchhiking since I was 15.
And I've seen the whole world I've hitchhiked through Europe,
I've hitchhiked through the U S back and forth. And I'm bored.
This is in 19. I'm like what? You go to the Eiffel tower. You take that same,
like, right. Well, what haven't we done yet? We've, it's all mapped out.
We've been to everywhere. We've seen everything. We've done everything. I I'm,
uh, I have a heart of a, an Explorer. I want, I want to find new things,
you know? And so I'm living on this kibbutz.
Most of the other people that are from Australia and South Africa.
And what I love about them is they're so racist that they don't even know
they're racist. Like I'm the only Asian guy there. And they're like,
Nintendo second Genesis. Like, I'm like, I got a name and they're like, no,
your name's Nintendo. I'm like, okay.
And so I'm working illegally in a casino,
illegally at a wedding catering place, and then working on this farm.
So I have three jobs I'm making like, you know, under the table.
And there's a library on the farm of books that have been left behind
by past travelers. And of course there's a old, um,
from the seventies or eighties, national geographic catalog.
And I start reading about mocha and Monday,
I don't know if that's how you say it, but it's scientists,
national geographic people have spotted this Brontosaurus thing in the Congo.
And it's still there in the Congo is still it's the heart of darkness.
And I got to find this thing. I got to go there. Like I was, I was, how old.
Are you at the time I was 18. You decided you were going to go there.
I was like, I have to go there. How old were you when you went? Did.
They teach you? Oh, it was no, no. And then vice I'll I'll,
I'll bring it back to how that turned into vice. But so I,
I get on a plane and tons of lying and manipulating to get the visa,
because it was an open to tourism. It was only open for two business. And so I,
I make up this story that, uh, I'm, uh, a body guard to a toothpaste executive.
And I work day and night to get a ticket to the Congo. And there's no tickets,
it's this airline Aeroflot and I'm in Israel, which is close to Africa.
But because it's this Russian airline I get on this flight,
it goes to Moscow and then Malta and then like six other African
countries. And then it lands in Brazzaville. How long?
Like three days almost like, like, and like a shaky airplane, you know? And,
and you know, everyone in there is the ones that got to get out, right.
So when they're coming back to bringing chickens and goats and all kinds of on
the plane, and it smells like, and I don't know, this is pre-internet right.
I don't have any information on the Congo, except for,
I heard that there's a dinosaur there. What year?
94, 94, 95. I lost track of time,
but it was right after high school. So 18, 17,
you don't have a cell phone either. No cell phone, nothing.
And the second I get off the plane, it smells horrible.
Cause they're just burning trash everywhere. And it's hot and it's oppressive.
And I go, what the am I doing right here?
And everyone there asked me, what are you doing here? They don't speak English.
They speak French. I didn't know that they're in the middle of a civil war.
Uh, I think the two factions were called the ninjas and the cobras,
like little kids shooting at night death.
Every third bullet is like a tracer bullet. So it looks like fireworks. I go,
what is that? And they're like, oh, they're just shooting into the air.
First breakout of Ebola, malaria. And
people go, why did you do that? That's not normal behavior. And I go,
the LA riots happened in 1992.
I watched normal civilization, normal civil
manners. Yeah. This is how people are. You go to a story.
I saw that crumble overnight in one night, it went from, you,
everything. That's burned down. That's Rob pillage, steal everything. I go, oh,
it could happen that fast. And once again, that same kind of, oh,
I think I'm accepted in this country. I think people like me for me.
And it's like, no, we don't want you get the. Go back to where you come from.
So I think, you know,
and I could go on and on about all the traumas I've experienced in my life,
but I hurt people, hurt people. I was in a lot of pain. I was like,
I didn't like Korean people. I didn't like myself. I didn't like,
I'd experienced a lot of, lot of abuse from black people.
And I just wanted to, I didn't know anything. There was no internet.
I didn't like, I felt like an alien. I I'm like I don't belong anywhere.
I just, so I would go, everyone goes,
don't go to Bosnia. Don't go to the Congo.
Don't go to the Gaza strip and I'm to I'm going to go every place.
My life has been very reactionary. Right? My life has been,
you don't tell me what to do. You don't tell me how to podcast.
I'm going to stick a butt plug in my, you know, I'm going to do what you know.
So I'm in the Congo and
it's in a full blown war. There's people being, um, uh, we and everything.
One's.
Like, who are you? Oh my God. Who is this Asian here?
Like I had my hair dyed then too. And they,
and so I could go and tell a million stories about the Congo, but at some point.
Why you were looking for this Brontosaurus for real,
or you just wanted to go to the condo one as well.
What? I know the kids like to say 100%. I've heard you say it too. Yeah.
Why? Why not? 99% just to leave 1% for 99%.
I was there for the dinosaur. Like,
like I was so young and dumb and stupid and ignorant where
I truly, truly thought I was going to find it. Like,
I didn't know enough about like the everything made sense to me
because anyone listening to this right now,
we're talking about a story from 20 years ago. Right? Right. I was a stupid kid.
I believed in Santa Claus very late, you know, like, uh, I was a bed wetter.
I I'm up, man. So when I finally did get to the jungle,
I got out of Brazzaville. I got up and I got to, um,
this jungle area called waySo.
Then I believed because the spiders are this big and the frogs are this big.
And how big are the frog? Just everything is, looks insane.
The snakes, they got snakes out here this big, like, it was like, okay.
Now I believe like every year scientists were finding a new species of something
that they thought was gone and I'm like, okay, the, and it's. And then,
and then, and then I meet the Pygmies. Whoa. And that was,
ah.
I don't know what version of the story I should tell because it can get so dark.
I met a German guy named, named, ah. I shouldn't say his name.
I met a German guy there who was the same age as me. And he could,
this is in the city. And then he could tell that I was lost.
I didn't know who this guy was.
He was being groomed to be like the next big politician in Frankfurt or
something. Right. And so I didn't, I didn't get this until later,
but he was here as his like sex vacation to as many black.
He liked black women. So he's going to as many
curb,
your language days to have as many intimate relations with women as possible.
Is that better? No, I'm trying. I'm trying to be better for myself.
That's what I'm trying to do is better.
You're explaining what it was. It's not a bad, that's.
What he was doing. So I figure it. So he sees me as another young guy.
To explain things accurately. You know.
You could use other words though. Yeah. But that's what it is, right?
It is what it, it is. But I, I, I can, I can come off.
I can turn people off when I use that language. I want, who are these people?
People that don't like you? No, no, there, there are people that they want.
Dave. No swear. Dave.
I came here for G-rated days and I want my money to be G rated.
I'm just trying to [inaudible] Dave. That's what I was signing up for.
Occasionally the word. PG 13. They have like rules. Right? Do you need like two.
99%. Okay. So, um.
This author, there was a real dinosaur in there.
And when you got there and you saw the big frogs and the big snakes, I'm like.
Yeah, maybe it is. And what happens is we,
we go to the last spotting of it. Right.
And then I meet any evidence at all. Like everyone I talked to.
Oh yeah, yeah. We seen it. Like there's no like, no, that's crazy.
Every person I meet is like, oh yeah, it's in the, in the last. So.
Is it one of those things where realistically,
there's not a whole lot of people look anyway.
No, but there are scientists that go out there. And in the meantime,
I've never seen anyone murdered before, until I got here. Right.
I've been through the LA riots.
I've seen things broken and burned down and guns pointed,
but I've never seen anyone hung. I've never seen anyone stoned to death. And I,
and it's absolute chaos. I'm seeing people murdered. I'm scared for my life.
I got attacked one time. So I go, I need to find it.
Now I have to find this dinosaur.
And I also know that there's a chance that I might never go home again.
So I write a letter to my parents. They don't know where I am.
They think I'm in Israel on this farm. Like I didn't tell anybody.
So I wrote my parents this long letter of, I love you guys.
I'm about to embark on a journey to find a dinosaur.
And I sent it at the airport before I got on the plane to the jungle.
I have no money. I have only one change of clothes. I've blonde hair. And I,
I go into the jungle and we get lost immediately. I'm a city,
boy, what the hell do I know about the jungle? What do I know about the jungle?
Where.
Were you? Did you have any direction? Nothing.
I just, I just knew what, you know,
you know what landed in the jungle.
There was a guy that I think I want to say his name is Chris.
That was a peace Corps guy. And he was there to help build welds and uh,
this bond to village. And he said, the place, what you guys are looking for.
And he's like, it's a, you're not gonna find a time. You know,
he was like the reasonable one. And I go, how do I know if you don't try?
You know, I still believed,
I still wanted to believe I was willing to risk my life for it.
So we get, I haven't told this story in so long. So we get to the jungle and,
and we start walking. There's a minor trail. And then it disappears.
It's just gone. And I'm like, we're lost in the jungle.
We're lost in the jungle. So yeah,
I'm with this guy that,
that what we told people, he was here to as many women as possible.
But we went with the story of,
he is the toothpaste executive and I'm his bodyguard. That's a fake story.
Right. As we're lost in the jungle, he starts to think that story is real. Hey,
go fetch me a pineapple. I go, dude, I'm not your he's like,
you're not a real executive bro. Like I'm not going to get.
And he starts like telling me like, like, I'm like, Hey, you know,
that was a fake story. Right? Like he's like, and, and there's no one around.
So we get lost for days.
And he starts to really be like humiliating towards me and right on
my nerves. And we had rations,
we went in with some crackers and some like tuna in a canned thing. And I go,
Hey, man, we're lost. I don't know how to survive.
We need a rash in this food out. I come, he had it all. He ate it all
well. And, and, and, and now, like,
have you ever been in that kind of situation where you're like,
I'm going to die here? Like I'm never going to like hope is gone.
Like I'm in a thick, thick Congolese jungle. Like, I don't know how to get out.
And we've been lost for days. Like, I don't know how to survive.
I don't know how to like, I, this is it. You know?
And on top of it, I have this German. Who's like talking down to me,
making fun of me and eating my rations.
Like I would pump all the water and put the waterproof vacation tablets and he'd
be like, thanks. And I'm like, dude, what the, man?
Like I did all that work so we could share it. And so he was just,
he was a Dick. And so man.
And you're stuck in that. You've been in a jungle like that before. No.
Dude. So we set up a tent, we have one tent. And so we're,
we're in close quarters with each other at night.
The moon is like this big, like it's humongous.
And you hear the entire jungle come alive, like monkeys.
And like things are bumping into the tent at night, like huge insects. And like,
and I'm like, I'm, I'm S I'm like, I'm gonna die here. I'm going to die here.
So the few times in my life where I've been in this kind of hopeless situation,
the only thing that's going to get me out of it is if I can control my mind.
Cause if I, cause I'm fat, I'm like falling into despair. And in the daytime,
I'm doing standup to the trees.
Cause we're just walking in like circles and I'm like, Hey,
how are you guys doing all tonight? You know, you.
Don't know where you are. I don't know where I am.
I'm talking to the vegetation. Oh my God. And.
This guy is riding my last nerve and he's.
And so I could safely say I lost my mind.
And so we're down to our last food and he and I,
and he did it again. And I said, bro, what the did I tell you?
We got to make this last I'm starving,
ate the rations that were supposed to that was it. And he's like, whatever.
And he's, he has a more like dissociated,
like checked out like w like we'll get out of here somehow.
And part of, I dunno, his coping thing was to like talk down to me or whatever.
And so that night, and we're were lost at this point a week and a half.
Maybe we haven't, you know, I'm 90 pounds. I've lost all this weight.
I'm going to kill this guy. I'm going to murder him. I'm going to murder him.
Cause I don't like people talking to me like that. I don't like,
I've been a punching bag for this guy for four weeks now.
And I'm just going to kill him. And if I have to eat him to survive,
I guess I'll do that. And so he's out cold. He's got crumbs on his face,
tuna juice from the food that was supposed to be shared. And I pick up,
I go outside the tent and I pick up, I pick up a huge rock,
like bigger than this. And I go, I'm gonna kill this guy.
I have officially lost my mind. Like I can't,
I'm barely going to survive. I can't do it here with this guy.
So he's Sal was looking at his face and I pick up the rock and I go
just like, I don't even have to apply any pressure if I just drop it, he's done.
Like, he'll, he'll be dead.
And I go off. Is there anything left? Is there any common sense?
Is there any light left in my, uh,
uh, I got to kill this guy. He has to go.
He has to, he has to, he has to die. He has to die.
He has to die. Uh, and then I just,
I didn't do it. I, I'm not a murderer. I can't. I like in the mind,
I'll do it. I'll do. I'll do what? Murder Dave, come to the front.
No one's ever gonna know. He does his family doesn't know he's there.
Your family, nobody knows. Who's who you are. This guy, Chris,
the peace Corps guy. He's not going to say anything. You can kill him right now.
He has a ton of cash that he hasn't been sharing with. You.
You can get outta here.
You can get some of your pride in your ego back this guys treating you like a,
like, like a Chinese waiter or something. Do it.
No one will ever know. No one will ever find out you were.
You're probably gonna die too. You want to die? Like catering to this guy.
Just do it. And I'm sitting. No, I don't. I don't want to, I don't,
I'm not a murderer and I didn't kill him.
I woke up the next day and I'm just looking at him like, you don't even know.
You don't even know what almost happened last night. We're walking around. Hey,
what's that? There's a pygmy up.
One of those 200, 100 foot trees. He's just sitting there chilling.
And I go, what is that? That a person we've at us.
200 Feet above you. Huge tree. Like just, I don't know. It's so high.
It's so high. Oh my God. It was so high. How did you spot him? He was,
he was like shaking a little.
From the place he was to get in front of us was seconds.
Is that high? It's like this short.
What's this jungle. That, I mean, when you, when you're in there,
do you even see sunlight through it or is it just.
No, it's so dense. I mean like, yeah, there's some cracks, but it's just,
this was also in the national geographic.
Why that the dinosaur would be here is because cameras can't see it because it's
such a dense, thick forest.
And there's things in there that are like moving and you know.
Your description sounds terrible. It's terrifying to sleep in the tent.
Oh my God, dude. I'm freaking out over here.
So, so the, the, um, the guy comes up, he's this short,
he's like tiny. He's like, you guys want some honey, what?
And um, this is,
this is where my skill as an artist has gotten me
out of so many situations. Right. Cause if you're in,
if you're in jail and you have any kind of skills, singing, dancing,
telling jokes, drawing, you're a celebrity. So this guy doesn't speak English.
We don't speak whatever language he speaks. So I start drawing stuff like food,
like, you know, in the dirt. And he's like, oh yeah, I got you. And he, and he,
and he goes, and um, he brings us a meat. That's all charred. And I'm like,
I don't know what that is. You know? And,
and I took one bite and it tastes horrible. And I'm like,
I'm going to starve to death, but I can't eat that. Wow.
And so it was like a movie he's like, come on, come on.
And we're walking and you know, it's us like stumbling, machete, trying to,
he's just like, what are we doing? Like, we get around a corner,
entire village of Pygmies. They've never seen an Asian person before.
I'm C3 PO. And they're that he walks from blunt. They're coming,
they're touching my face. They're like, yeah, look, it looks like, he's like,
I don't know what the they're saying. Like, um,
the kids keeps doing this thing. Like, ah, I go, what are you saying?
There was one older,
older guy in the village that I guess spoke a tiny bit of a French.
So my, the German guy can translate. He's like,
they're saying you come from the stars. You're coming from the stars.
And I'm like, oh my God, that's heavy. So I'm like, so I'm like, we're saved.
They bring us some honey. They bring us some fruit and I'm like, oh God,
I'm like just devouring. They're laughing at us. And you know,
it's like the national geographic, the women's are like down to their ankles.
And um, this guy,
he's an alien. He's an alien told you 1995. I was, uh,
I was 19 years old. Yeah. 19 years old. Yeah. And,
and they put that, um, they put clothes on for the picture.
They were all naked when I got in there. Wow. I'm looking at my Tivas.
That's amazing. That picture is amazing.
So I know I had any of these people seen it. Did you ever describe it? Oh yeah.
I draw the dinosaur. I go, here's the dinosaur. And what were they saying?
They go, oh yeah, yeah. Yeah. There was never like, no, it's always like, okay,
there's a dinosaur. And uh, they go, let's go.
And I go, they go, it's it's through wetlands. Like this,
there's going to be leeches. Like, uh, there's a disease called bill.
[inaudible] where, uh,
there's like a snails under like still moving waters. And the second,
a mammal steps in the water, little parasites shoot off the snail,
like a heat seeking missiles.
And they go in your Dick hole and then you and blood till you die. And I'm like,
okay, I'm done. Like I tap out.
So they're explaining like all the,
the Trek and the way to go find this dinosaur. And I'm like,
I went, I went up until the leeches. And then when I came out with the leeches,
I go, all right, I like this. This is it. You know, I go,
can you help us get out of the jungle? And they're like,
it took less than a day. That's how close we were to like, really,
we were probably walking in circles. So we get out in less than a day.
I get, I get back home. I'm 19 years old. I start writing for, uh,
for vice. I start drawing pictures for them. I do comics I'm writing. And uh,
oh no. I was writing for a magazine called giant robot. And, uh,
Gavin and Shane would read that magazine and they're like, they were,
they were ahead of the curve, right? Like when all print magazine right existed,
they were like, we need to go to digital. Like,
like they were, you know, vices always been free. Everyone feels it.
They go to those magazine shops or wherever. And, and they're like,
we need to have online presence. The internet was brand new. And they said,
Dave, that is the, and I told you not the PG 13,
but that story gets very dark darker than what I said.
And they go, will you go back with a camera and a camera crew?
And I said,
that was one of the most traumatic I almost died. I saw people murdered.
There was a virus where people were bleeding out of their eyeballs. No. Okay.
I'll go. I enough time had passed. It was 10 years later. Actually it wasn't,
it was, that was uh, 95. And then it was like eight or 10 years later.
And um, so that was the one that vise filmed. They're like,
can you go back over the Mickey mouse shirt?
That was from when I went with the film, like just my camera.
So I go back and um,
how did we even get to this tiny dinosaur?
They all see the same dinosaur. Oh. Look at that.
Dude. You're on fired Jamie. Holy.
Yeah. That one number three. Number three is bonkers. What is that?
Unless it's a log could be a log.
That's all my on my second trip back, I met the doctor.
There was a doctor that lived in the village, close to that river,
look at the track. And he said, he'd seen it really. And he's like, not, uh,
you know.
I wonder if any, like real legitimate biologists have looked at those tracks.
I mean, they could tell you, by the way, the footprint,
like they can kind of tell whether things are fake or real.
Not based on like how, where the weight is distributed.
Like getting someone to really understand how these animals will walk.
I think it would be really hard to fake dinosaur footprints, right?
Because the weight, it would have to have, like.
There, the description, I just read this said it wasn't that big.
I shouldn't say it's not big, but it's like 30 feet, 35 feet. It's pretty big.
It's like a big, big, giant elephant.
How big those alligators were that we were just talking about.
So it might be a turtle they were seeing. That's what, I don't know if,
what they actually found a turtle through here.
Their were so big. Like when we went to the river to bathe that, you're like,
okay, let me just take their clothes off. And I'm like, oh,
I'm going to keep my clothes on. And I go, they go, whoa. I go, dude,
I have like a normal penis for like, I'm proportioned correctly.
Like your is down to your knees.
And this was back in the city when I got back to Brazzaville and they're like,
bro, you know, our are so big. I'm like why? And he's like,
there's all these naked kids running around. He's like,
cause we never wear underwear. And I'm like, what? It's like,
see the girl whose are down to their, her stomach. Never wear a bra.
It's gravity, bro. Everything just droops. I'm like,
that's why your digs are so big. I'm like,
I'm still gonna leave my underwear on. It's like,
this is too much time when you've never, you've never been Africa. No,
never been to dude, please. I'm begging you.
I know you're into the hunting and the bull hunting please. Like,
so when I texted, you have to do with anything, Africa, man hunting in Africa.
You mean? So when I texted you the other day,
I saw that the last time I texted you was 2018. I was like, dude,
I'm going to Africa. I'll see you when I get back. That's right. Yeah. And um.
Okay, this is the, this is the yes. Yeah. You telling me this is very heavy.
So there's uh,
there's hunter gatherer tribes in like the Arctic Papa, new Guinea,
the Amazon Africa. But very few, like they're almost gone. There's very,
very few people that live off the land.
And I just,
whenever the podcast went off the air and I, and I, and I ghosted, I,
I just lost my mind.
I hit my rock bottom and very similar pattern of
what I always do when things get rough is I just go to Africa. I go,
it's a weird thing to be
like rich or be in a country that's rich or half stuff.
And some as an adult, someone has to teach you gratitude.
Like I hear you say it all the time. I thankful. I'm thankful. I'm grateful.
I go, but I'm not. I have everything. And yet I complain like crazy. I'm like,
I need to go. I need to get the outta here. I need to go someplace where,
where I can, I can learn humility. I can learn to be grateful.
So I get to I'm traumatized now by the con I didn't even go into my second condo
story. When I went with vice,
that was even crazier where the chief tried to kill us. But, um,
so Congo is the heart of darkness. I get why those books are written.
I get why people have these mind losing experiences out there because it is one
of the darkest countries I've ever been.
So I don't want to go somewhere different this time.
Do you know the European settlers? They tried to live in the Congo for awhile.
I met one. Did you see the houses that they left behind?
Dude, when I got to this bond to village and uh, Chuck, his name was Chuck.
Chuck, if you're listening, I know it's 20 years ago,
long blonde hair from Oregon peace Corps guy.
He got a malaria while we were there and he goes,
please contact Francoise. And I go, who the is Francoise?
And he goes, he's, he's in the jungle.
And this is this isn't in the Congo villages, the bond to village. And he goes,
you go down this tree and you go. So he's deep in the, in the,
but this is still near a village. It's not, you know, so we go into the, in the,
in the jungle and there's like a giant Victorian French,
like European house in the middle of the jungle. And I'm like,
how did this happen? And he's like, so we go in there and uh,
Francoise is just like, like, uh,
some weird French dude that just said, I'm going to stay here.
He had like 12 bond, two wives. There's all these like half black,
half white babies crawling around. And he has a ham radio and he's like,
what's going on? I'm like, Chuck is dying. Can he said to come contact you?
And he's like, oh, okay. I'll contact the aircraft carrier.
And they'll send a chopper in for him. I was like, oh. But yeah,
that's that's the one time I saw a French Victorian.
I don't even know how to describe the architecture.
It was like a beautiful French home in the middle of the Congo jungle.
Yeah. Well, there was a website dedicated to, uh,
those people that try to do that.
And it just detailed how it all went terrible for them.
The jungle just over cut, came to the house.
Like you can't keep the jungle back. It's too powerful. There's too much there.
The jungle grows so quickly. It's just, I mean,
you'd have grass popping out through the middle of your floorboards and trees
trying to grow through the side of your sewage system. Like they're just,
it's just too much. It's wild.
When you just said too much. Like I just thought right now, every time in my,
my, I hit a rock bottom in my life gets too much. I go back to Africa.
So when someone says, go back to where you come from, maybe it's Africa.
Well, we all do right. We all do. Okay.